# Props

A component can *pass information* to another component. Information that gets passed from one component to another is known as “props.” A component’s `props` is an object. It holds information about that component. It is possible to *pass information* to a React component by giving that component an *attribute:*

```jsx
<MyComponent foo="bar" />
```

To pass information that isn’t a string, wrap that information in curly braces. 

> **About the word props**
> There is some loose usage of the words prop and `props`. Unfortunately, this is pretty inevitable.
>
> `props` is the name of the object that stores passed-in information. `this.props` refers to that storage object. At the same time, each piece of passed-in information is called a prop. This means that `props` could refer to two pieces of passed-in information, or it could refer to the object that stores those pieces of information

## Accessing props

To make a component display passed-in information:

1. Find the *component class* that is going to receive that information.

   ```jsx
   <MyComponent propName="some_information" />
   ```

2. Include `this.props.name-of-information` in that component class’s *render* method’s `return` statement.

   ```jsx
   render() { return <h1>{this.props.propName}</h1> }
   ```

It common to pass functions as `props`. It is especially common to pass *event handler* functions. An event handler is defined as a method on the component class, just like the *render* method.

```jsx
import React from 'react';

class Example extends React.Component {
    handleEvent() { /* do something */ }
    render() { return <button onClick={this.handleEvent}>Click Me!</button> }
}
```

This is often used to pass event handlers between different classes.

**Code Example**

App.js:

```jsx
import React from 'react';
import ReactDOM from 'react-dom';
import { Button } from './Button';

class Example extends React.Component {
    handleClick() { /* do something */ }
    render() { return <Button onClick={this.handleClick} /> }
}

ReactDOM.render(<Example />, document.getElementById('app'));
```

Button.js

```jsx
import React from 'react';

export class Button extends React.Component {
    render() { return <button onClick={this.props.onClick} >Click me!</button> }
}
```

**Naming Conventions**

The first name that you have to choose is the name of the event handler itself. The second name that you have to choose is the name of the prop that you will use to *pass* the event handler. This is the same thing as your attribute name. There is a naming convention that they often follow: 

- Name the event handler after the event it will process. Examples: `handleClick`, `handleHover`, `handleKeypress`, etc.
- The prop name should be the word `on`, plus the event type. `onClick`, `onHover`, `onKeypress`, etc. 

## this.props.children

Every component’s `props` object has a property named `children`. `this.props.children` will return everything in between a component’s opening and closing JSX tags. So far, all of the components have been *self-closing tags*, such as `<MyComponentClass />`. But `<MyComponentClass></MyComponentClass> ` would also work. `this.props.children` would return everything in between `<MyComponentClass>` and `</MyComponentClass>`.

If a component has more than one child between its JSX tags, then `this.props.children` will return those children in an array. However, if a component has only one child, then `this.props.children` will return the single child, *not* wrapped in an array.

## defaultProps

If a component is set up to receive a prop, it is possible to set a default to show when that prop is not passed in using the property `defaultProps`. 

```jsx
class Example extends React.Component {
    render() { return <h1>{this.props.text}</h1> }
}
Example.defaultProps = { text: 'Default Title' }; 
```